
# looked for learner corporas that are similar to EFCAMDAT and that could support in meta-learning eval

	1. the Cambridge English Write & Improve (W&I) and LOCNESS corpus (BEA SHARED TASK 2019)(GEC)
		1. 3700 essays (43000 sentences) on approximately 50 topics written by 334 authors.  800k tokens
		2. only have text, userid, cefr
		3. maybe there's some external way to find user context using the userid?
		4. duolingo shared task
		5. you know the 'country' but you don't know the user input
	3. FCE : The First Certificate in English (FCE) corpus is a subset of the Cambridge Learner Corpus (CLC) that contains 1,244 written answers to FCE exam questions
	4. Lang-8 Corpus of Learner English Lang-8 is an online language learning website which encourages users to correct each other’s grammar. The Lang-8 Corpus of Learner English is a somewhat-clean, English subset of this website (Mizumoto et al., 2012; Tajiri et al., 2012). It is distinct from the raw, multilingual Lang-8 Learner Corpus. In Lang-8, language learners post their writing on the Lang-8 site to be corrected by native speakers. 1,037,561 sentences 11,857,938 tokens (couldn't find access yet)
	5. NUCLE The National University of Singapore Corpus of Learner English (NUCLE) consists of 1,400 essays written by mainly Asian undergraduate students at the National University of Singapore (Dahlmeier et al., 2013). It is the official training corpus for the CoNLL2013 and CoNLL-2014 shared tasks. 57,151 1,161,567
	(asked access)