title: On the Personalization of Classification Models for Human Activity Recognition
tags: #phd #paper #personalization #ml 
url: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8995531
abstract:  
Recently, a significant amount of literature concerning machine learning techniques has focused on automatic recognition of activities performed by people. The main reason for this considerable interest is the increasing availability of devices able to acquire signals which, if properly processed, can provide information about human activities of daily living (ADL). The recognition of human activities is generally performed by machine learning techniques that process signals from wearable sensors and/or cameras appropriately arranged in the environment. Whatever the type of sensor, activities performed by human beings have a strong subjective characteristic that is related to different factors, such as age, gender, weight, height, physical abilities, and lifestyle. Personalization models have been studied to take into account these subjective factors and it has been demonstrated that using these models, the accuracy of machine learning algorithms can be improved. In this work we focus on the recognition of human activities using signals acquired by the accelerometer embedded in a smartphone. The contributions of this research are mainly three. A first contribution is the definition of a clear validation model that takes into account the problem of personalization and which thus makes it possible to objectively evaluate the performances of machine learning algorithms. A second contribution is the evaluation, on three different public datasets, of a personalization model which considers two aspects: the similarity between people related to physical aspects (age, weight, and height) and similarity related to intrinsic characteristics of the signals produced by these people when performing activities. A third and last contribution is the development of a personalization model that considers both the physical and signal similarities. The experiments show that the employment of personalization models improves, on average, the accuracy, thus confirming the soundness of the.